{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2820
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Inter-Regular;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red130\green130\blue130;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cspthree\c0\c0\c0;\cspthree\c58039\c58039\c58039;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14680\viewh16280\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14800 \cf2 How to Ace Analytical Thinking PM Interviews\

\fs22\fsmilli11200 Host Ben Erez\

\fs27\fsmilli13600 \

\fs22\fsmilli11200 \cf3 Speaker 1 0:24\

\f1 \cf2 Everyone, we're about to get started here. Just letting folks join.\
All right, so as you'll hear, I am getting over a cold, so I'm not, I'm feeling well, but you might hear me a\
little stuffy and I hope that doesn't get in the way of the talk at all. But I appreciate everyone taking the time\
to join this lightning lesson. Today we'll be talking about analytical thinking PM interviews. My name is Ben and\
I'll be be hosting this the session. I'll start by talking a little bit about my experience with these interviews\
and where, you know, why you might care about them. So if you're, you know, interviewing with companies like Meta\
and many other companies like Attentive, Stripe, Datadog, Google, you're going to run into some version of\
analytical thinking interviews and a lot of people don't really have a good framework for approaching these\
interviews. And my, my goal with these sessions is to give you a framework and help you build some confidence\
around how to approach these interviews in the future. I prepared for these interviews when I was interviewing for\
Meta. I got the role as a product manager at Meta and got trained up as a interviewer at Meta and ran over 20\
analytical thinking interviews myself as I was there and then have done probably hundreds of mock interviews over\
the last three years or so with people helping them prepare for these, these interviews as well. So I've come up\
with frameworks, templates, a lot of heuristics that I think can help people bootstrap what it is that's going to\
work for them and my goal is to share a lot of that with you today. Okay, so kind of getting into it, some basic\
housekeeping before we start talking about the, the actual subject matter. So this talk is going to be recorded,\
it's going to be emailed to you afterwards, I think something like 24 to 48 hours from now. You could keep your\
video off if you prefer. That's totally cool with me. It might actually be distracting if you turn on, so probably\
prefer you keep it off. And then I, I will be actually using the recording of this as a pre read for my course\
starting which is the next cohorts in January, which we'll talk about later. So for recording quality I'm justgoing to be keeping people muted and ideally having the chat be where people drop questions at the end and then I\
would prefer if you held your questions until the end so we can get through all the content and then talk through\
it. There is going to be quite a bit to cover And I'm going to go quickly because this, this actually was a full\
lecture in my, my first and second cohorts that took somewhere around 60 to 90 minutes to get through at a more\
leisurely pace. My goal was to try to take all of that and give it away for free in this, this context, which is\
requiring me to go faster than I would otherwise. But one, like I said, it's free. So hopefully you're not too\
upset about that. And then second, you could rewatch the recording on a slower speed and absorb. So hopefully, you\
know, maybe this will be the first time you, you encounter the content, but if you want to take your time with it,\
you will be able to do that for sure. Um, and then the last thing I'll say as we, as we kind of finish the\
housekeeping part is that my materials are going to give you a really good foundation to practice. But I want you\
to know that there's no substitute for actual practice. And the more people I've helped get ready for these\
interviews, the more this has been true. Um, there is a direct correlation between the amount of reps and the\
amount of practice that you get working through real questions and success on these interviews. So I think that's\
important to keep in mind. Okay. The way we're going to spend our time today, it's going to start by walking\
through the evaluation areas for analytical thinking interviews and how I recommend just kind of picturing the\
interview flow working. And then I'm going to walk you through a template that I have that captures how I\
recommend structuring your response for this kind of interview in a, in a, in a Google sheet setting. So I'll walk\
you through that and that one is going to be blank. And then I'm going to walk you through a filled out version of\
that template that has real content for a, for a question so you get a sense of what it might look like when\
you're properly filling that out. And then we're going to go through a bunch of advice that I have in general\
about these interviews. Have a little surprise waited that I'm keeping for the end and then we'll open up for Q\
and A, like I said in the chat. So my ask for you is as I start, as I go through this content, if you have\
questions, please write them down for yourself first. Don't drop them immediately in the chat because I might\
answer them later. But if you have any questions that I did not answer until the end, that those would be great to\
drop in the chat at the end. So just write those down for yourself, please, and then talk through. Okay, so what\
is an analytical thinking question? And then what are the basic, you know, evaluation areas that, that matter for\
this? So a typical analytical thinking question is something like, how would you measure success for some kind of\
product? Or how would you set a goal for this product? Or let's say you're the PM for this product. How would you\
measure success? Right. Various flavors of that question. And what they're looking for is your ability to take a\
very ambiguous prompt like that in, in a structured way, chip away at it by walking through typically the product\
rationale. So that's, you know, what problem does it solve and why is that important? There's a little bit more\
that goes into product rationale, which we'll get into in my template shortly. Second, measuring impact. So what\
are the set of the metrics that represent the ecosystem that this product exists inside of? Third, setting goals,\
basically making an altitude shift from the ecosystem level to goals that a specific team could impact. And then\
usually there's also going to be some kind of trade off question where you might have to make a difficult decision\
between two options. But they want to know that you have a framework for making those kind of trade off decisions.\
Now, time management is key in these interviews. Usually These interviews are 45 minutes long. So you're typically\
going to have about five minutes in the beginning of these interviews where you're doing, you know, introductions,\
small talk, those kind of things. Five minutes at the end where the interviewer might let the candidate ask them\
some questions. And what you really have Left is about 35 minutes to go through the exercise itself. So my\
frameworks are all assuming about 35 minutes of available working time. And then the way I recommend breaking down\
that time is starting with around five minutes, no more than five minutes on product rationale, spending a lot of\
time on measuring impact, spending so 15 minutes there and then a little less than five minutes on setting goals\
and then leaving at least, you know, 10 minutes or so at the end for trade offs. You know, it's not cookie cutter\
like every interview is different, but I'd say as a baseline this is probably a good, a good anchor. Okay, so the\
first thing I'm going to go into here is the interview template.\
All right. For those joining late, I am getting over a cold, so I apologize if I have to mute myself and cough a\
little. Okay. So the basic structure of a template that I recommend using for these interviews and for practicing\
for the interviews, by the way, and I will give you all this template for, for free as part of the course\
resources after this talk so you can make copies it and use it for yourself to work through as many questions as\
you want. And I'll give you a good, really good question bank as well that you could use to find good questions to\
practice. But it starts with being asked the question. And then I like to recommend making some assumptions up\
front. We'll talk about what kind of assumptions make sense, but basically, you know, if there's anything that\
will help you get started, it's good to state that there are things like narrowing in on, you know, a certain\
country or certain region, a certain platform, those kind of things. And then I like to say this thing exactly. SoI'll say that, I'll say that now because everyone should get comfortable saying this. I want to start by reviewing\
the product's landscape and reason for existing, touching on where I think it is along the maturity life cycle,\
key competitors, the company's unique advantage and how the product generates revenue. And then we'll finish by\
setting a placeholder mission statement for the product. Then I want to identify the product's key stakeholders\
and player ecosystem players, along with each of their primary motivations for participating in the ecosystem, and\
then define key actions that indicate the motivations are being met and translate these into ecosystem health\
metrics. Once we have ecosystem health metrics, try to identify a North Star metric that reflects value creation\
for the ecosystem overall. And I'll critique that metric to define one to two guardrail metrics to ensure we're\
growing the ecosystem sustainably. Once we have the North Star metric encounter metrics, I'll identify a small set\
of goals that an individual team could focus on within three to six months time frame. And at any point I'd be\
happy to talk through trade offs. Does that sound like a good plan for spending time together? Okay. Starting the\
interview after you get asked the question and state some assumptions in this way is going to set the tone for the\
interview and it's going to demonstrate to the interviewer that you have a game plan for how you want to spend\
your time together. Which is why I think it's worth taking the 30 to 45 seconds to say it. Okay. Otherwise you're\
just going to jump right in. I would not recommend that. Uh, also gives them a chance to tell you whether they\
have different expectations for how they want to spend the time together. So I would start there. Then if they say\
cool, you say great. Let me take a minute to gather my thoughts. So this is where we get into the product\
rationale here. You want to, like I said, describe the basic product functionality, where it is might along the\
maturity life cycle, how it makes money. You can touch on current alternatives or competitors, and then why this\
company is uniquely positioned to deliver the best experience or product if there. You could also talk about key\
gaps that might exist with current options. And then you want to set some kind of mission statement for the\
product that you will possibly and maybe even likely need for a trade off question later. So I'll show you what\
that means. So you set those and then once you're aligned there, you check in with the interviewer, you share what\
you came up with in a structured way. Say, does that all make sense? If they say yes, Great. Next, I'd like to\
spend a couple minutes thinking through ecosystem players motivations and key activities for realizing value. Does\
that sound good? They say sure. So then what you want to do is you want to list out the key players in the\
ecosystem, the key value proposition to each of these ecosystem players for participating in the ecosystem. What\
are the key activities that allow each of these ecosystem players to unlock the value of being in the ecosystem?\
And then you want to wrap each of those up with a nice metric. So what's a health metric with a time frame that\
allows you to capture the key activities associated with unlocking that value? This is the basic framework for\
ecosystem player health metrics. Okay, then you want to take all of your ecosystem health metrics and try to\
identify a North Star metric. A North Star metric could be one of the metrics that you ended up identifying for\
one of the ecosystem health metrics, but it could also be something different. So the idea here is that you want\
to try to come up with a metric that's going to capture some kind of behavior action that represents what's good\
for the largest number of ecosystem players that you thought about. And then you want to critique that North Star\
metric, so you want to talk about what's good about it and then potential drawbacks of that North Star metric. And\
the reason that's important to do is because your critique of the North Star metric is going to allow you to then\
get into looking at the guardrail metrics and counter metrics. The basic way to think about guardrail slash\
counter metrics, I really do think of them as the same in a lot of sense. Like these terms mean the same thing in\
a lot of sense is that if your North Star metric is supposed to go up, like let's say your team is Crushing what?\
That and your North Star metric is doing a good job of capturing this thing that you want growing. So if it's Door\
dash, maybe it's the total number of successful orders delivered per week, or if it's Uber, maybe it's a total\
number of successful rides per week, or if it's Airbnb, total number of, you know, trips booked per month, or\
whatever that metric is that really just like describes like great things happening for the product ecosystem. The\
counter metric is the thing that you want to stay within a healthy range as that growth happens. So, you know,\
let's just say you're building some kind of messaging, like an SMS messaging product, and you want to grow the\
total number of messages sent you. You want to do that without increasing spam reports or, you know, as a certain\
percentage of messages. So it's basically a health quality metric in a way to prevent bad things happening by the\
North Star metric going up. Okay, that's the basic concept. And then once you have those, you want to work\
backwards from the North Star metric in keeping the guardrails in mind to think about how you might translate the\
North Star metric into goals that your team could focus on on a, let's say, three to six month time frame. Now,\
the way I like to approach this is set one ecosystem player to focus on. So, you know, we had in this example,\
four rows, it could be five, it could be three. You know, this is just a, it's just a template that you could use\
for whatever you actually run into. But you pick one of those ecosystem players and then you, you work on a basic\
user journey that leads to that key action. Okay, so let's say you pick the first ecosystem player, the keyactivity that allows that ecosystem player to unlock value as it pertains to the North Star metric. You work\
backwards from that, um, and then you want to identify some goals along that journey that you could potentially\
choose to focus on. So these are not decisions, these are options. Um, and what you want to do is you want to be\
able to pick one of those to focus on by scoring it on your ability to influence it and the impact on the North\
Star metric. So if something is really within your controlled influence and it has a very high impact, or you, you\
can make a case that it has a high impact on the North Star metric, that is the perfect goal to set, ideally. So\
that's, that's the basic idea here. And usually that'll get you through everything other than trade offs that,\
that'll allow you to give the Interviewer, all the signals they need. Now again, like I said, we're going to walk\
through one of these filled out in a moment. And before we do that, I just wanted to touch on the trade off side.\
So. So usually with the trade off question, you're going to get asked about something that, you know, we'll talk\
about the different kinds of trade off questions, but basically there's going to be like, what is better, this or\
this or you can only put one of these things in this part of the product at the top, like should it be this thing\
or this thing? It's going to be, you're going to be given a couple options and they're going to want to know how\
you'll pick one. Okay. That's the basic idea. And the first thing to do after you get asked a trade off question\
is you want to pretty much describe the trade off back to the, the interviewer. So you want to put, put it in your\
own words and make sure you understand it. Then I recommend thinking about the common goal. So I would take a\
minute actually think about this. What's the thing that both of these options would accomplish or what's the thing\
that they both tie to? What is the common mission? Maybe so you want to try to take the apples and oranges and\
turn it, start turning it into an apples to apples is kind of how I, how I describe this. And then you want to\
take the two things and you want to describe the. And I like to use this template because I do think you should be\
pausing and thinking and writing throughout these interviews. Do not be talked, you should not just like word\
vomit the whole time. You should take your time and be thoughtful in how you structure your thoughts. But you want\
to, you want to take some time and think about what are the pros and cons of each of the things. So if we do thing\
one, what are the advantages of that, what are the disadvantages, et cetera. And once you go through that, you\
should be able to kind of boil it down to what's like the fundamental trade off here. Is it between breadth and\
depth? Is it between engagement and growth? Right? Like there's going to be some thing that's happening that is\
going to be fundamentally different. And that's the thing you really want to be able to boil down. And that's not\
going to be necessarily evident the moment they ask the question. So you want to, you want to boil it down and\
then what I, what I recommend doing is really going back all the way to the, the mission statement for the\
product. And if you get asked about like a feature within a product within a company. So let's say the example\
we're about to walk through shortly is Instagram reels. So Instagram reels, you could argue it's a feature, you\
could argue it's a product, but it sits within what we would all agree is a product which is called Instagram. And\
then that sits inside of what we would all agree is a company called Meta. Okay. And if you are being asked about\
a trade off about two different features within Instagram, then what you want to be able to do is pick which of\
those features you know deserves the better placement, which is the example we'll go through by tying it to not\
just the mission of the feature that you're working on, but you want to actually zoom out even a layer further and\
think about the mission of the product and the mission of the company. Okay. And that's ultimately what they're\
they're testing for is your ability to make these trade offs by tying to some clear rationale. You're going to be\
operating with, with barely any data in these interviews. So it's not going to be something that you'll be able to\
like data your way too, but it's got to be more principled than that. Okay, so that's, that's the basic framework\
in my template for how to approach these interviews.\
Now I want to go through a filled out version of this.\
So I'm taking a sip of water.\
Okay, so my window. Right. So let's say you get asked a question. Let's say you're a PM at Meta. How would you\
measure success for Instagram reels? Okay. A lot of people I work with have told me they've gotten this question\
in the last few months. So this is pretty standard. Okay, so the first thing you want to do is state assumptions.\
So what you want to do is start by saying something like, you know, I'm going to focus on the core Reels product\
within Instagram. I know it's also available on Facebook, it might be. And then, but I'm just going to focus on\
Instagram itself and then I'm going to primarily focus on the US market. Um, if you want, you could also make an\
assumption, you know, around like mobile, which, you know, at this point I think everyone probably say is obvious\
for something Instagram reels, but you don't need to. Then you say that whole spiel that I said earlier and then\
you start to get into it. So if you think about Something like Instagram Reels. It's Meta. You want to describe\
what it is first, like I said, so it's a meta short form vertical video product. It allows creators to produce and\
share engaging video content up to 90 seconds long. You can kind of be that specific. If you want, users candiscover Reels through their feed. They could explore a page that's associated with Reels or with the Reels\
creator. They could even look at a dedicated reels tab. And the product generates revenue because ads get inserted\
between reels and shopping features integrated into videos, something like that, you could say. Reels is in a\
growth stage of maturity. Even though it's achieved some significant adoption since launching, it's still\
expanding its creator base and competing for market share with TikTok, YouTube shorts and other short form video\
platforms. And Meta's uniquely positioned to succeed with Reels given its massive user base across Instagram,\
Facebook, strong creator relationships, recommendation systems, advertising infrastructure, that kind of thing.\
And then it's, I think it is important to talk about why the company cares about this product or why this product\
is important. So, you know, you could think it's. It represents a response to a fundamental shift in how people,\
like young people, consume content. The success of TikTok is applying pressure. If, if Meta doesn't adapt, it's\
going to risk losing user engagement, fall behind competition. Two, it's a little more aligned with advertising,\
with, for advertising with modern consumption habits. You know, I'm not going to read through every single word on\
here, but the basic idea is you lay out why this product matters and then you want to set some kind of mission\
statement. Okay, so maybe something like empower creators to share engaging short form videos that entertain and\
connect the Instagram community. Right? You're supposed to make this up on the spot. It doesn't have to be right,\
it just has to be reasonable. Then we get into ecosystem players. Okay, so if we think about who are the high\
level ecosystem players for reals, you've got your viewers, slash consumers. You've got your creators, you've got\
advertisers, and you have meta. When you think about the value proposition for each of these ecosystem players,\
you could think of the consumers as, you know, entertainment discovery, accessing engaging personalized short form\
video content. The key activities are watching reels, engaging with, with them through these different, you know,\
actions they can take. And then you could think of the ecosystem health metrics as like daily active reels\
viewers, average watch time per user per day, number of reels liked and shared per viewer, Per day, per week. So\
this is, this is, you know, I'm not going to go through every cell in the table, but the basic idea is you do that\
exercise for every one of the rows here. And again, I will share this with all of you. So you're not going to,\
you're not going to lose this. And then you try to set some kind of North Star metric. So maybe it's, you know,\
total reels watch time per week. Okay. And the reason that that could be good is because, you know, it indicates\
that if you can grow total reels watch time, think like the total number of minutes people spend watching reels\
per week. Okay, what's good about that? Well, it indicates people are finding the content engaging enough to spend\
time with it. It signals that creators are producing content that holds people's attention. It gives more\
inventory for advertisers to reach audiences because people are spending more time watching this stuff. And then\
it's driving revenue opportunities for meta and creators. What are the potential drawbacks of this metric? That\
watch time could increase even if the content quality degrades. Okay, that's 1, 2. It could incentivize longer\
videos even when shorter ones might be more engaging. And it doesn't directly capture creator sustainability or\
advertiser roi. So if we wanted to address some of these potential drawbacks, we could say something like, hey,\
maybe the average completion rate per reel shouldn't drop below a certain baseline. So this ensures that we're\
growing the watch time through engaging content, not just longer video completion rate being like a total number\
of like the percentage of the reel that gets watched. Right. To, to attend. And then the second one is the creator\
retention rate. So number of percent of creators who post at least one reel in consecutive months. This ensures\
ecosystem sustainability. So if we can ensure that we grow total reels watch time without hurting the completion\
rate of, of watching reels and we don't start churning creators, then that is going to be a good thing. That's the\
basic idea of how to use this framework. And if you think about turning this into goals, so at this stage you\
could make the argument that creators is going to unlock the most growth for the weekly watch time. Because while\
viewers and advertisers are crucial, if you don't have a robust supply of engaging content, it's going to limit\
the total amount of watch time that you could have. Okay, so if we think about the, the journey, you can say it's\
about creating and editing reels, posting reels, reaching viewers through distribution, generating engagement,\
understanding Performance and ultimately maybe monetizing the content. That's kind of like the basic creator user\
journey here. And so if we look at that, we could set some potential goals. You know, one could be increase the\
real creation completion rate, so percentage of reels that get started, reels that get published through better,\
you know, in app editing tools and templates, something like that. Second, could be increasing the creator posting\
frequency through improved scheduling and planning tools. And maybe the metric, there could be something like\
percent of creators who post at least two reels per week. And third, is improving new creator retention by\
enhancing the first week performance insights, something like that. And then you could look at each of these and\
say, okay, you know, in a real interview, you will need to talk through your rationale for why you give each of\
these things the score you give them. And like I said, these interviews are going to be 35 minutes long, so I\
cannot do a full proper mock on this lightning lesson while also covering content and answering questions. Sothat's kind of why I have to be a bit succinct here. But I can make the case that, you know, the creator posting\
frequency is, is very high. It's the highest ability to influence and it could have a very high impact on North\
Star metric, which is why it would be the goal I would set or the goal I would pick.\
Okay, now let's say I asked a trade off question. So you went through all that and I said, let's say you're the PM\
for Instagram overall, you're deciding whether you want to put reels at the top of the Instagram app instead of\
stories. Is it better to have reels at the top or is it better to have stories? Okay, so this is a real question\
that one of the people I work with got asked. And the fundamental trade off here is what goes at the top? There's\
prime placement. There's only one thing that's going to go at the top of the Instagram app. Which one is it? Okay,\
not that. Not that complicated. When you think about the common goal. You can think both reels and stories\
contribute to Instagram's mission of connecting people through visual sharing. But they do it in different ways.\
Stories enable authentic, ephemeral sharing between friends and followers. Reels focuses on entertainment and\
discovery of content from a broader creator ecosystem. Okay, so if we look at reels at the top or stories at the\
top, and we look at the pros and cons of each, you could say reels could, you know, if we put reels at the top,\
Maybe that accelerates the growth of our TikTok competitor. Maybe it gets higher engagement per session due to the\
video format. Maybe it gets more monetization potential because it's going to have more immersive video ads.\
Something like that. The cons is that it could reduce authentic sharing between close connections, it could shift\
Instagram's identity further away from social, and it could risk reducing Stories engagement, which is already a\
format and a feature that people are very heavy, heavily invested in. If you think about a world where Stories is\
at the top. So this is the, you know, status quo. It maintains Instagram's core social value prop, it preserves a\
familiar user experience, projects engagement on a format with high user adoption. And then the cons are slower\
growth for Reels, maybe less aggressive competition with TikTok and lower potential for more entertainment driven\
engagement in the product. So the fundamental trade off here is between strengthening the social connections\
versus pushing towards more entertainment and discovery. And if you think about which direction to go with, if you\
consider the current maturity and mission of Instagram, I would say keeping Stories at the top makes more sense.\
Even though Reels is strategically important, Stories represents a core differentiator of authentic sharing\
between people. Moving Stories could signal that Instagram's deprioritizing social connections, etc. And then this\
is the kicker. I always say it's important to include a what would need to be true for me to change my opinion\
thing when you share your rationale. So if we see Stories engagement plateau while Reels continues to grow\
rapidly, or if user preferences shift more dramatically towards entertainment, I would revisit this decision.\
Okay, so I'm leaving the door open to changing my mind. All right. I told you we would all go through that really\
quickly. Hopefully you can watch the recording if you want to. I know it's supposed to be a 45 minute session. I'm\
going to plan to go until the hour mark. And if you have to drop, I totally understand, but I think we should be\
able to get through everything. So to summarize, review product rationale, describe ecosystem players and set\
health metrics, define North Star metric, critique it, define guardrails and set a goal to focus on and then\
evaluate a trade off. Okay. And you want to be thinking before each of these things and then you want to share\
back with the interviewer and check in with them to make sure if it makes sense. Okay, I'm seeing some questions\
come in the chat reminder. I'm not going to answer those till the end, but feel free to drop them. There if you\
want. Okay, quick plug. And then I have some. I'm gonna shift into advice. Okay. So I'm gonna be teaching my next\
two cohorts of the course on January and February. The dates are listed here. People who join this lightning\
Lesson will get 10 off my course with light at promo code. And we'll be just getting a lot of practice with the\
template, with the framework. You'll get access to me with all your questions and I'll share something special on\
the AI practice copilot at the end of this talk. But I just wanted everyone to know I do have a full class if you\
want to get more hands on practice with this stuff. Okay, advice. All right, so first thing I'll say is that\
interviewers are evaluating your thought process and your rationale and not your domain knowledge. So you want to\
make sure you don't overly rely on knowledge of existing products, metrics. So for example, if they ask you about\
a product that is in a space you've worked on before, don't try to like take shortcuts. Make sure you actually\
walk through it from square one. The second thing is that what makes for a good countermetric is that it's a good\
balance. The North Star metric. So this is a really good chart that I found from Product HQ that talks through\
some examples of North Star metrics with countermetrics. But basically, you know, it's a way to make sure that\
you're growing the North Star metric without taking a hit on something else as I talked about. But I'll be sharing\
this, this material so you can look at this after the fact trade offs. As I mentioned in our example was, you\
know, about whether it's better to have IG reels at the top or stories. Some people go through this interview and\
they get asked, is it better to have reels for reels, to have, you know, 100 reels with a million views or a\
million views? A million reels with a hundred views each. There's no right answer for these questions, but it's\
all about your ability to frame it and then to have strong rationale or at least reasonable rationale for why youbelieve what you believe. And like I said, mention what needs to be true for you to change, for you to switch your\
stance in the future. I mentioned this before, but it's really critical. Do not dive in right after this is, you\
know, people ask what are some of the biggest pitfalls of these interviews? I would say one of the biggest\
pitfalls is just jumping right in. And I would recommend not doing that. So that, that framework that I shared, I\
would recommend sticking with. I do really recommend embracing those, you know, arguably awkward silences to\
think. I think they're a good use of time. Don't spend more than like two minutes pausing and thinking. I think\
that can get a bit much and eat into your time. But up until two minutes, I think it could be pretty, pretty good.\
Um, I would also recommend not sharing your screen. So if you are using my template or, you know, if you're just\
writing stuff down, sharing your screen can become a real distraction. You're going to start, like, fixing typos\
in real time, just wasting your time on things that don't really matter. So my general advice, even though they\
tell you could share your screen, is not to. Unless they insist on it. Okay. Usually they shouldn't. There is no\
right answer to any of the questions you're going to get asked. Uh, you just need to be. To be reasonable, make\
assumptions, walk them through your thinking. Just don't contradict yourself along the way. And if you happen to\
get asked one of these questions from an interviewer that has some preconceived notion of a right answer, you\
can't anticipate that. I'll treat it like weather conditions. Okay? There's no planning for someone already\
knowing exactly where they want to land.\
Nudging. So you might get nudged throughout these interviews. And the way that that can manifest is them saying,\
hey, like, why are you. Help me understand why you want to go with, like, weekly versus daily for your North Star\
metric. Right? That's an example of a nudge. They're not trying to trip you up. They're just trying to get the\
signal they need. So when you get nudged, just kind of roll with it. They're trying to help you. Okay, Next thing\
here is time management is critical. I've mentioned this before, but it's worth saying twice. The flow that you\
follow in the interview should be entirely focused on giving the signals within the allotted time. And if you, if\
you're not providing them signals as part of your plan for the interview, I would, I would cut that part of the\
interview part of your plan. So an example is, let's say you're also going through Product Sense interviews as\
part of the same company's interview process. Product Sense is going to get into, like, a different set of\
signals, like problem identification and solutions. Don't bring those into this interview, okay? Because those are\
not going to give them the signals they need for analytical thinking. I get asked, like, hey, is it okay if I, if\
I make a mistake, is it okay to like, go back and redo a previous section? I think if you feel like you took a\
wrong turn or you did something that you're no longer feeling good about. Like for example, if the ecosystem\
health, if the ecosystem player that you chose to focus on for goals, if you're kind of like regretting the one\
that you picked, you could pick a different ecosystem player. Right. Or if the, if the North Star metric that you\
chose is wrong and you're, you're kind of working, you wish you chose a different North Star metric. Let's say you\
picked daily and now you realize it should be weekly, you can go back and fix that. Okay. The key is just\
communicating that thoughtfully while being mindful of time. Okay. Some of the links that I'll share with you are\
the ones we talked about. I'm going to give you a link to what is arguably the greatest question bank of all\
times. You can. So this, this guy, Lewis Lynn, wrote a book and has a big PM community around interview prep and\
people can submit real questions that they get asked from places like Meta Stripe and other companies. And you can\
see that as of yesterday there were brand new, you know, five new submissions here. You know, analytical thinking.\
Analytical thinking. So if you're trying to get more practice with, with, with questions, the place to decide\
which questions to work through, I would highly recommend Lewis Lynn's question bank. And I'll link that to you\
after this. I also have some supplemental reading around how to figure out which, which life cycle stage a product\
is in and how to think about defining success metrics.\
I promised in the Lightning lesson page that I would also give you a homework assignment. I probably won't have\
time to grade these for everyone that ATT lesson, but you could use my template and work through a question like\
how would you measure success for Facebook events? Okay, so that's a homework assignment for you if you want it\
and start preparing your questions. Okay. And before we do that, I want you to know that as part of my course, I'm\
also introducing a mock interview prep AI copilot. Okay. This is a very interesting. It's a cloud project that I\
trained in my course materials and it is incredibly good at providing both mock role play as an interviewer. So if\
you give it a filled out template, if you follow my template and submit it, it will actually grade your assignment\
and, and it will give you room for improvement. So I've done that with a few questions and a few templates I\
filled out and it's really good. And then the second thing it's good at is it's good at playing a candidate. So\
you could ask it a question and it will walk you through how it would respond as a candidate, including things\
like checking in, making assumptions, responding to nudges. And then it scores itself at the end as well, scores\
the submission of its own response. So, people that join my course, I will help you set that up on yourself andtrain your project on all my materials so that you could get way more practice than you could get with just me or\
with anyone else in a one on one setting. Okay, I mentioned this earlier, but I'll mention it again. My course is\
starting. The next cohort is starting in January. 10% off with light at is the promo code. And then I'm gonna\
leave this up while I start looking through some of the questions. Um, if you wanna join the cohort, here's a QR\
code in case you have your phone nearby. Um, and if you are willing to take two minutes to complete my NPS survey\
for this talk, it will help me do a better job in future talks and improve my material. So I would really\
appreciate that. Should be really, really quick. Okay, I'm going to start reading through these questions.\
Okay, so there's a question around. Can I go over an example about a B tests that we would have to set up to make\
decisions at the end of an analytical interview question? Where does that fit in the template and what is the\
structure to go over it? So what we talked about are you could argue that it could be a B tested, like stories at\
the top or reels at the top. If it was a trade off question between breadth and depth, like, you know, a hundred\
reels with a million views or a million reels with a hundred views, that would not be a B testable. So I think\
the, the, the key is that if you get asked a question that could be AB tested, that you describe what the goals\
are that they would have in common. So if you imagine, if you imagine two different features that each move a\
different metric, the questions are they both going to roll up to like some kind of engagement metric, you know,\
or are they both going to improve overall time spent on the product? Something like that. And then you want to be\
able to describe if you were to run an A B test. And if you choose to decide to run an A B test, I don't think\
they'll tell you that you need to run an A B test. You'll just want to walk them through what you would measure\
and what you would track. And then you if you want to use an AB test as the way you want to respond to the\
question, then you just need to be able to communicate also how you'd consider things like the mission and your\
answer so it can't be just based on metrics. You want to also make sure that you're talking about things like\
mission alignment.\
There's a question around my prioritization criteria. I don't know what that's referring to, but if that's still\
relevant after what we went through, feel free to re ask that, please. What differences do you see between early\
career PMs and product leaders and how they go through the framework? I'd expect leaders are less framework in\
response, but still touch on all evaluation areas. If you're being asked to go through an analytical thinking\
interview that follows the basic structure of what we talked about, you know, like how would you measure success\
for this? Etc, and it's a, you know, large ish company and you're not being interviewed by like the exact hiring\
manager. You know, it's not a behavioral interview where they want to hear like tell me about a time in the past\
where you measured success. Right? But if it's more like this is a structured interview for analytical thinking\
and I'm going to ask you a question, I want you to walk me through your thought process. I would follow this exact\
framework. I don't think there should be any key differences between, you know, like level, like seniority of\
people and how they use a framework like this. But generally speaking, in interview processes there will also be\
additional questions or additional interviews. I should say that get that get asked if you're joining like level\
seven and above versus like a level five. So I don't, I don't have any reason to believe that leaders need to be\
less frameworked, use less frameworks in their response.\
How does the upcoming cover everything needed for Meta My course if that's the if the question is about my course,\
my course covers everything needed for Meta's product sense and analytical thinking interviews. My course does not\
include leadership and drive, which is the third structured type of interview that most people going through. The\
meta interviews need to pass. From an interviewer perspective, is it better to handwrite your thoughts during an\
interview as opposed to processing your thoughts through a spreadsheet? I've heard that people using AI have been\
a problem, so typing might be misunderstood. Oh, that's an interesting question. I don't know if that's I don't\
know if that's something that I've seen come up. Like, I don't think people have been told they're not allowed to\
like, type their thoughts during interviews. I can, I can see why that might be concerning to people, but out of\
everyone I've been coaching, talking about like dozens of people in the last, like six months who have gone\
through these interviews, no one has told me that they've been not allowed to type. Okay. So that said, when I\
went through the meta interviews originally, back in 2020, I wrote, I like to like, write stuff down and I didn't\
have all these templates back then. I kind of like figured out a lot of stuff for myself when I was preparing. So\
you could print out my templates too. I tell people they could totally print them out and, you know, write right\
and populate the. The templates and writing if they prefer, with a pencil or something. So you could totally do\
that. It also slows you down a little if I'm honestly allows you to think more. Tim. Yep. Good to see. Good to see\
you too, Tim. Pause. Thinking breaks. What's an acceptable number of these pauses? I would really. So I'll go back\
to like this, this flow here. So when I say one to two minute pauses, it's really at each of these moments where\
you're transitioning between one section to the next section. So, like, you know, if you follow this, likestrictly four. Four times, something like that. Thanks. Yep. Does the upcoming Boot Camp cover everything for\
meta? Okay, I think I answered that. And\
yeah. So one, someone's asking, what about a question like, hey, we launched this thing, the North Star metric was\
neutral down, but this other metric was up. What do you do? Those are interesting questions. They, they could,\
they could come up and they are ultimately trade off questions like, let's just say this metric is up and this\
metric is down. What do you do? It's another way of saying, is that good, is that bad? And what I do know is that\
the debugging questions are on the way out. So there used to be questions like, this metric was up, this other\
metric is down. What happened? And they want to know that you can kind of like ask the right questions to land\
into some kind of explanation or get to the root of how you might understand what caused that dip in the metrics.\
Um, but in this case, if the North Star metric is neutral down, but some other metric related to engagement\
retention is up, what do you do? You want to find the common place where both of these metrics contribute to\
something in common. So taking apples and oranges and create an apples to apples. We don't have the time to go\
through this live right now, but you want to try to find the common place where these things contribute to\
something similar and then you want to use again. You want to tie back to the mission of the feature or the\
mission of the product and figure out what would be best for the product overall given its current stage in the\
life cycle. That's. That's the basic framework.\
Are January and February continuous or two different sessions? There are two different cohorts, so the course is\
two weeks long. So there's two a two week cohort in January and a two week cohort in February. Generally speaking,\
I tell people they should take my course probably in the month leading up to their interviews so that it's fresh.\
So if someone's going to go through the interviews in March, maybe it's better for them to be in the February\
cohort. Are estimation questions still asked? I've been given mixed responses on this. I know for meta no, but I\
have heard that Google has continued with some people to ask them, but it's not. I don't spend as much time\
helping people with the Google interviews as I do the meta ones, but I do believe it still gets asked.\
Okay, I have time for maybe another question and then we'll wrap this up. If people have anything you want to ask\
going once, twice. I'm seeing people already starting to drop, so I'll take that as an indication that we are done\
here. So thank you everyone for joining. I hope this was helpful. And let me know if you have any other questions\
about the course after the fact. And keep an eye out for the email with these materials. Cheers.}