{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2820
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Inter-Regular;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red130\green130\blue130;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cspthree\c0\c0\c0;\cspthree\c58039\c58039\c58039;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14680\viewh16280\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs33\fsmilli16800 \cf2 How to Ace Product Sense PM Interviews\

\fs26\fsmilli13200 Host Ben Erez\
\

\fs31\fsmilli15600 Transcription\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs26\fsmilli13200 \cf3 Speaker 1 0:32
\f1 \cf2 There we go. All right, well, thank you everyone for dialing in for this lightning lesson about Product Sense\
interviews for product managers. My name is Ben. I teach a course on Maven around Product Sense and analytical\
thinking PM interviews. I've recently decided to split up what used to be my lecture materials in the paid course\
into two separate lightning lessons that I'll be giving away for free. This is the first of the two of them around\
Product Sense and I'm doubling down my course on practice and a couple other things I'll mention later in this. So\
hopefully this will make the material a lot more accessible to people who either can't afford to take the course\
or just prefer consuming the content asynchronously on your own time. This talk is being recorded and it's going\
to be emailed to you. If you've never joined a lightning lesson from Maven before, your email is now on a list.\
Um, and anyone who joins this or signed up for this rather, even if you're not here, if you have to drop, is going\
to get an email with the link to the recording. Think something like 24 to 48 hours after the talk video. I\
encourage you all to keep it off. If you're like me, just want to consume the content comfortably, go for it. If\
you want to turn it on, I'm probably not going to see you, so it won't make a huge difference. I have kept all of\
you muted by default. I'm pretty sure that if you want to unmute yourself, you're gonna have to ask for my\
permission. And the reason for that is that I'm planning to use this recording as a pre read for the course. So I\
want to keep the audio pretty tight for people are gonna be taking my course. We will do questions at the end,\
ideally using the chat. Sometimes people can ramble a bit with their questions and I'm just trying to be mindful\
of everyone's time. So if you have questions throughout the presentation, please write it down and then at the end\
there will be time for Q and A. Okay, so the things that we're going to talk about today are Product Sense\
evaluation areas. So you know, if you go through interviews at a place like Meta Google, there's a bunch of\
companies these days that are using Product Sense Interviews as one of the interviews for evaluating product\
manager candidates. We will go through what the evaluation criteria are that have become somewhat industry\
standard and then I will give you a bunch of personal advice on how to provide the right signals for the\
evaluation. The evaluation areas Then we're going to walk through a Product Sense question example following my\
template that I came up with and work through it. I do have the content pre populated, otherwise this would have\
taken a bit longer. And then I'll give you some supplemental links for more practice and even give you a take\
home. I will not have the time to review everyone's submissions, but I, I think you should have the template to go\
through a question on your own and hopefully get a lot of value out of the practice. Then we'll open it up for Q\
and A. I have a little surprise at the end too.\
Okay, so diving in here and let me just make sure I can see the chat. Actually can't see the chat. So when I'm\
done, I'll see your questions, but I'll just keep running through this. All right, so there it is. Perfect. Okay,\
so if someone drops something, I will see that. Okay, so let's start by talking about the evaluation areas for the\
Product Sense interview and how I generally recommend spending time. And then we'll get into some of the more\
meaty topics here. So at a high level, a Product Sense interview technically takes 45 minutes. There's usually\
five minutes of small talk in the beginning introductions, five minutes at the end usually reserved for the\
interviewer, allowing the candidate to ask them any questions they might have. So you're really Talking about\
roughly 35 total minutes to get through one of these interviews. And there is a very clear set of signals that\
interviewers are looking to get. So they want to understand your ability to describe the product motivation. So\
like why does this product even exist? And we'll get into what that means. Then they want to know that you can\
take that and start describing the audience for the product. Who is it for? What kind of segments might we\
consider? I Recommend spending about 10 minutes there taking one of the segments that you consider and then giving\
a rationale for why you would prioritize that segment. Then you get into problem identification. So tell me about\
some problems a segment might experience and then pick one of those to go deep on and have some good rationale for\
that. Ten minutes there. And then we finish with a solution development portion of the interview where you take\
the problem that you prioritized, brainstorm some creative solutions, and then pick one of those and that then you\
stick the landing and maybe even describe like the V1 or the MVP of that. That's the basic structure of these\
interviews. And many of the companies that will be evaluating you on these interviews will always be, will also be\
Scoring you on your succinctness and your structured communication. So this is not one of those interviews where\
you can like ramble and hope that, you know, if you said 10 things, five of them were the right ones and hopefully\
they forget about the other five. You do have to be pretty buttoned up on these.\
So throughout this today's lecture, I want you to keep in mind a question like this. Okay. So a question that you\
could be asked is, let's say you're interviewing with Meta. For example, build a product for gardening. Super open\
ended, right? So we're going to think through how to answer this together. And then I actually ran through this\
with one of my previous cohorts and I'll show you what a filled out template for this looks like so you can have a\
sense of how you might think through it. So the first place to start is to describe the product and theexperience. Provide a basic overview of the elements, touch on how it might tie to the company's mission.\
Obviously that is going to be different based on which company you're interviewing with. Connect to something deep\
in the product or the experience, like why is it actually something important or meaningful? Get a little soft\
here, tap into something a bit deeper and then you want to leave some kind of placeholder mission statement that\
you could use later. Okay, so this is not a nice to have. It's something that will actually play a role later. And\
you want to ideally do all that in a couple minutes, two to three minutes. Okay. Then you want to get into target\
audience. So here's where you're going to identify the key players in the ecosystem. You are going to group them\
in the highest level possible as people that have incentives or skin in the game. You want to then divide the\
ecosystem groups into mutually exclusive subgroups that are really based on their primary motivations for caring\
about this thing. I will make a note here that the motivational groupings are probably more useful for this kind\
of question that we're talking through. Like a product for gardening, it's a zero to one brand new product. If\
you're being asked to make something better, like an existing product better, this might be a little bit less\
helpful. So. But you do often get asked these super open ended questions. Then you are going to define segments\
based on heuristics like lifestyle behavior, usage patterns, budgets. There's a bunch of things you can consider\
for thinking about how you might define your segments. You could certainly combine them with demographics, but I\
would not go just with demographics. That's going to be Pretty shallow. And then you want to prioritize a segment\
by scoring. Ideally, what I like to use is something like reach and underserved degree. So reach being how big is\
the segment. An underserved degree is how poorly served is this segment relative to that mission statement that we\
defined before. And then you want to set some kind of Persona. So give them a name, like paint a picture. Who is\
this person? What are they trying to do? Where do they live? Are they in a house? Are they in an apartment? Like,\
bring them to life in a way. Okay, how much time do they have? Once we've defined that Persona, we want to go to\
the next part of the interview, which is problem identification. Here we're going to outline the key steps of the\
user journey that this person goes on, obviously in the context of this experience or this product, in our case,\
gardening. And we're going to identify the problems that they might encounter at different stages of that journey.\
To one, make sure we're not missing anything big. But two, we want to be able to really identify unique problems.\
And if you get stuck on only one part of the journey and you try to come up with maybe two to three problems in\
just one part of the journey, it's going to be very hard for you to do something unique. So to show breadth in\
your creativity around identifying problems, it's better to really map out that journey and to kind of pick\
problems that span a few different moments in that journey. The other thing I'll say is that people needs are not\
problems. I need beautiful flowers is not a problem. Okay? So it's hard for me to find the flowers that will be\
beautiful in my apartment. That sounds like a problem. Okay, so those are different things. You will get dinged if\
you can't say, like actual problem statements. And then you want to prioritize problems by scoring them on\
severity. And frequency is my preference. So severity is when this problem occurs, you know, how much does it\
hurt? And then frequency is how often does this problem come up for this Persona in this user journey, okay,\
you ideally pick the problem that has the highest weighted severity and frequency. And then you get to solution\
development. In solution development, you want to really demonstrate creativity. So this is arguably the part of\
these interviews where you will be most expected to show off how creative your solution thinking are. If you're\
artsy creative, this is where you want to shine on that you do want to come up with different ways of solving the\
problem. And you could think of moonshots like really big bets. But just so you know, they don't count more than\
practical solutions. So the key is just solving the problem at hand. And if you want to apply the latest\
technology, I do recommend doing that. I think it will, you know, kind of make your solutions seem a little bit\
more novel, creative, relevant, timely. Um, when you have your solutions, you're going to be expected to pick one.\
If you can only identify one solution, that's not going to show enough breadth. So you want to identify, ideally,\
at least two to three solutions, and then you want to pick one of them by talking about the impact and the effort\
of bringing a solution like that to life. Um, if you have time, usually if you do have, like, if you get through\
all of this in, let's say, 25 minutes or 30 minutes, you probably have another five minutes, five to 10 minutes at\
the end, unlikely, but somewhere probably around three to five minutes. If you do this well, you could, you could\
describe some kind of minimum viable product or a V1 and outline some key risks that you might run into that you'd\
consider as you contemplate a rollout strategy. Okay, that's, that's basically the product sense outline for these\
interviews. And the approach to summarize is you're going to always think and pause between transitions between\
each of these parts of the interview. You want to review the motivation mission, share that with the interviewer, ask\
if it makes sense. They say yes, great, keep going. If they say no, make sure you answer their questions. They\
might need some clarifications. Then you want to describe the audience and craft a unique segment. Check in with\
the interviewer, see if it makes sense to them. If it doesn't, do that back and forth until they follow your\
thinking, then get into defining the segment problems. Prioritize one, check back in with the interviewer, makesure they follow your thinking and finish with solutions. Do the same exact thing again. Okay. All right, so now\
I'm going to. And just as a reminder, questions will be at the end. So as you have questions, please just write\
them down and be prepared to share them at the end. If you share them now, I will not see them. Okay. Um, okay, so\
now I'm going to go into some advice that's going to apply to kind of everything we talked about just now. So the\
first thing is that you are driving the structure of these interviews and you're managing the clock. If you rely\
on the interviewer to do that, you will not do well in these interviews. So after they ask you the question, hey,\
build a product for gardening, don't Just, like, start saying stuff. Okay. Um, it's not a regular conversation.\
You're not having coffee. This is a game that you're playing, and you need to demonstrate that you understand this\
game. So you state your assumptions, and then you walk them through your plan for how you want to spend the time\
together. I'll show you exactly what this means. You don't have to ask clarifying questions if you don't genuinely\
need answers. I would rather you state assumptions for the sake of time. And don't be ashamed to show, like,\
you're really prepared. So if you have a real clear structure, that's great. Um, and then throughout this\
interview, try to be assertive but not aggressive. Don't get defensive, but certainly behave like it's your\
meeting. Second thing I'll say here is you do want to embrace those awkward silences to think, and they do get a\
little bit of getting used to, or they do take a little bit of getting used to. But each of those pauses that I\
mentioned can usually last somewhere between, like, a minute to two minutes maybe. Um, that's okay. It's really\
not a problem if the interviewer has to just sit there quietly while you're thinking. Um, in product sense. In\
particular, if you fill that space by thinking out loud, it will hurt you because it's gonna hurt your succinct\
communication scores. So while this is not about speaking, my last piece of advice on this topic is to. I really\
recommend against sharing your screen, because once people start watching your screen, it's almost like they're\
watching you think live. So instead of thinking out loud verbally, you're thinking out loud on paper, on your\
scre. And you're going to start, like, correcting typos and all this stuff. You might have technical difficulties.\
That is all really precious time that you cannot afford to burn. I would instead, you know, if you want to use\
notes on your computer, totally cool to go for it, but just don't share your screen. Just make sure you can do the\
work you need and then be ready to prepare a story to share or I'm sorry, to prepare your answer to share back\
with the interviewer. An anecdote that I will share on this topic is one time I had a candidate who I was\
interviewing when I was at Facebook, and the candidate chose to share their screen, and it took them two minutes\
to kind of figure out how to share. And then once they started sharing, we were probably five minutes into the\
interview, and they were just, like, writing a bunch of stuff. So I'M like seven minutes into the interview and we\
haven't even started. Like a conversation back and forth. That is a failure state. Okay. So I just want you to\
avoid that happening to you. The next thing I'll say here is that there is no right answer. A lot of people that I\
help prepare for these interviews think there might be some kind of, like, specific, you know, pot of gold at the\
end of the rainbow that they're trying to reach and, and give the exact answer that gets them there. I would say\
as long as you're making reasonable assumptions and the interviewer can follow your rationale, you can really take\
this interview in whichever direction you want. Often interviewers will tell you that, which is great, but they're\
not tricking you. There is really not a right answer. Uh, you do need to be clear, you do need to be logical, and\
you should not contradict yourself. I would set those as guardrails and rules. Um, now if an interviewer happens\
to have some kind of preconceived notion of what the right answer is, you cannot control that and you cannot\
anticipate it. I like to talk about it like it's weather conditions. Okay? It's out of your control and there's\
nothing you could do to prepare for it. Um, but it's rare. It's very, very rare. Okay. The next thing I'll say here is that interviewers might nudge. What that means is they might ask you to clarify or they might ask a follow up. It might feel like you're hanging out on a particular part of\
the interview a little longer than you expected or longer than you would like. It feels like there's a little bit\
of an obstacle in the road to overcome. This is usually because the interviewer is really trying to get the signal\
they need and they're struggling to get it. So if they ask you a question that they consider a nudge, it is really\
to help you. And if they don't ask you these questions, it's usually because you just already give them what they\
need. So in my experience as an interviewer, it's way more fun to do an interview when the candidate crushes the\
interview in a good way because it makes it. I don't have to do as much work during that interview. It's kind of\
on its. It's almost like on a happy path. It's sliding down the hill on some skis. You know, it's. It's all great.\
The time goes by faster. I Enjoy it. And, and yeah. So I just want you to know the interviewer is rooting for you\
because it's going to make this time more enjoyable for them. An example, to tie back to problems, let's say an\
interviewer asks you, hey, like, are there any other problems that you might consider? That's a nudge that the\
breadth of problems you propose might not be, not be wide enough. Or they maybe don't really agree with the way\
you're framing your problems. So if, and then when you get to solutions, they might ask, oh, are there any other\
angles that you'd consider to solve this problem? That would be another nudge to say, hey, like, I need you togive me more to work with here. I don't have enough signal. Okay. Um, in general, time management is so critical.\
I cannot repeat this enough. So I really do recommend that every single second and minute that you spend on these\
interviews is meant to give the interviewer the signal that they need. And if something does not provide signals,\
cut it. For example, there's an analytical thinking interview that is a completely separate interview, completely\
separate process than the Product Sense interview. That one is where you should showcase your ability to do\
metrics, identify North Star goals, like those kind of things. You do not want to try to fit goals and metrics\
into this interview. I've seen some people try to do it sometimes and it just like derails the conversation. I\
have to just be like, hey, I'm not really looking for that right now. Um, so just like, don't, don't do that. Um,\
sometimes people like to ask like, hey, like, how many is enough? Like how many segments, how many problems, how\
many solutions? Um, generally speaking, I think you could sometimes get away with two. But my rule of thumb is if\
you're in doubt about whether you're doing it well enough, I would go with three. Um, for the number that you,\
you, you kind of like consider. And then I would evaluate them on two dimensions. Where this goes really wrong is\
sometimes people come up with like four segments or like four problems or five problems and they're like, look how\
smart I am. I can come up with all these problems. The problem with that is that then you need to score them on.\
There's like a lot more cells almost in your matrix that you need to score. So you don't want to do that and you\
definitely don't want to start extending yourself into like five problems on like three dimensions or you're going\
to go full blown rice like, you know, reach, impact, confidence, effort, now you've got like four dimensions on\
five problems. You've got 20 cells in your matrix to fill out. It's way too much. It's going to. It's going to eat\
up your time. So I would keep it simple. And often interviewers might not even ask you to like, walk them through\
every cell of that matrix, but you will want to be able to rationalize the segment you chose. Walk me through why\
you know that's the segment, and tie your rationale to the dimensions problem that you pick. Tell me about why\
that problem, and then ideally, walk me through a rationale for the score you gave it along the key dimensions.\
You scored it on the same resolutions.\
The next one is more philosophical, conceptual for those of you who maybe like chess is that when you make a move\
in chess, and just like this interview, depending on how skilled you are, you will anticipate the next step ahead.\
And even if you're not great at chess, I do want you to understand that this interview is like a game of chess.\
And what I mean by that is that the segment that you pick is going to corner you in to a set of problems, a\
problem space, and then the problem that you pick is going to corner you into a solution space. So as long as you\
are keeping mindful, you are, you are continuing to be mindful of that dynamic, and you don't corner yourself into\
new, too narrow of a space, you should be okay. But if you corner yourself into a problem that really only has\
like one possible solution because it's like too narrow of a problem, that will hurt you.\
Okay, backtracking. So let's say you made a mistake, you're playing this game of chess, you regret the move you\
made. Unlike in chess, you can backtrack in an interview like this, but it's really important to call it out\
explicitly. Don't try to bury it. Say, hey, I was thinking a little bit more about the problems here, and I'm\
realizing that I think the segment that I picked is probably not as specific as I would like it to be. So I'm just\
going to take 30 seconds to a minute and just kind of reconsider some of my segmentation, if that's okay with you.\
You can totally go back and do that. Call it out. Ideally, the sooner you backtrack, the better because you'll\
burn less time. You will not get dinged for that as much as you think. Okay, quick time check. We're 20 minutes\
in. I want to now go into showing you some materials. So the first one As I promised, is going to be a filled out\
Product Sense interview template for the build a product for gardening. I'll include this afterwards as a resource\
as well. The second one is I'm going to give you a Product Sense interview template that you could copy on your\
own and use for more practice. The third one I'm not going to go into, but it is a publicly available link that\
Meta shares with people interviewing there that includes a video. It's not password protected, it's just on their\
website, but I do think it gives you a basic sense of kind of how they describe. And there's also some small mocks\
between PMs there that I would recommend watching and then something that I continually. I'm like so deep in this\
world. But a lot of people don't know about this. But Louis Lynn has a question bank that's got like thousands of\
questions that continue to come in live every week from people going through interviews and they submit what they\
were actually asked. And that is, I think, usually the best source of practice questions. So to start, I see only\
one person. Actually, can I get a thumbs up from one person in the chat? If you can see my Product Sense template,\
I see a thumbs up in the video. Awesome. Okay, cool. All right, so let's talk about the template. So I gave you a\
bunch of tips and now you're like, cool, Ben, like, how am I going to go and apply all this stuff in a, in a real\
interview? So what I would recommend is going into every one of your structured interviews with a empty template\
that you will fill out as you go. And you'll start by putting the question at the top. And then I have literally\
written out the blurbs of things to say to make sure you don't forget them. So this is what I, this is how I liketo start. I want to start by reviewing the landscape, et cetera, et cetera. I'm not going to read all this out\
loud. Take 30 to 45 minutes to say it. Sometimes you'll be asked about existing products, sometimes you'll be\
asked about new ones. It's good to just kind of anchor yourself at the start. Just pick whichever one they're\
asking about. In this case, a product for gardening feels like a new product. As you get into assumptions here,\
you are going to state key assumptions that you feel like are going to help you upfront. Just chip away at some of\
the ambiguity. So in this case, we ended up going with focusing on the US focusing on keeping it within the\
Facebook family of apps like WhatsApp, Instagram, Facebook versus spinning out like a standalone product. Usually\
that's a great assumption to make. And then targeting, you can say, hey, we're going to focus on personal\
gardening versus botanical gardens or commercial uses. So you can just state some upfront assumptions here to\
narrow in on what you're going to focus on. And then you want to think about the product experience, why it\
matters, and then set some kind of placeholder mission statement. So I'm going to zoom in here a little bit. So\
what we came up with is just describing what gardening means, what kind of process is involved, general kind of\
like mindset about the people that do it, and then state some kind of mission for this product. Connect people,\
bring the world closer together. You know, like, we can definitely make a case that gardening can bring people\
more close together through community, things like that. So this is you spitballing. You don't have to say all\
this out loud to the interviewer. But then ultimately we landed on something like, you know, bring people closer\
together and empower them through a shared passion of cultivating plants, fruits, flowers and vegetables,\
something like that. So that gives you your mission statement. Then you want to go ahead and think about the\
ecosystem players around this. So you could consider like equipment suppliers, nurseries, et cetera, landowners.\
Pick one of those. So you can think of maybe like the gardeners, the consumers, which is probably what Meta would\
want to focus on. Think about the primary motivations like growing food, de stressing beauty, aesthetics, et\
cetera. Then you can get into segmentation heuristics like budget, time constraints, space types, climate. You\
know, there's all kinds of different factors you can think about when you're trying to paint a picture of who\
you're building for. And then we came up with a few segments. So, like, newbies looking to get into gardening,\
passionate retirees, people who just want to set it and forget it and not really think about it too much. We had\
some really good debates. This is kind of where I'll go back to saying that there's not a right answer. This\
stuff, as long as you can make an argument, it's interesting. So we had some debates on which was the bigger\
segment and which was the one that was more underserved or less underserved. And then ultimately land on a\
Persona, someone who's maybe like an urban working professional who wants to enjoy more time on the weekend by\
making the space more aesthetic, something like that. You can use this segmentation checklist if it helps you just\
kind of remember what to do. And not do. As you get into problem identification, you could talk about the user\
journey, so you're evaluating or exploring options, what plant to buy, should I do it? Should I do it myself or\
hire someone? Then you buy things, you plant them, you water them. There's kind of like a, like a life cycle to\
gardening. And then you end up, you can come up with some problems. So like, you know, one of the problems we\
picked was that the plants die. Cause I don't know how to care for them. It sucks when that happens. If you have\
ever gone through that. And then we took some time, thought about solutions and ultimately landed on a solution.\
To submit photos on a recurring cadence to get feedback on how healthy they are from the community or from some\
kind of tech. You don't get too prescriptive necessarily at this point. And then I could ask you as an\
interviewer, cool, what's the MVP for this solution look like? And it could be something like an AI powered plant\
buddy that you could send photos to using Meta's AI assistant or AI agent. It would analyze the image, determine\
if it's what kind of plant it is, what it's supposed to look like when it's healthy, and if there's like deltas,\
it could surface them and then you could kind of call out some risks. So that's a very, very fast run through of\
the template. But I wanted you to kind of see how to apply some of this in an actual interview question context.\
As I mentioned, I will give you a link to a version of this template that is blank that you can copy. And this is\
the question bank that I was referring to. So if you go all the way to the bottom, you could see people dropping\
in questions from yesterday who had interviews at Meta. Yesterday someone at Meta got asked a question. Build a\
podcast product on Netflix. That's a real thing. Someone got asked yesterday. So if you want to practice on those\
kind of questions, you could do that too. Okay, I'm going to take a sip of water.\
So when you get my template, if you want to get some practice, you know, one question of the thousands of\
questions you could work on, but just to get you started, is you could choose to build a product for volunteering.\
Okay, that's like a preview I just showed you. Build a product for gardening. You could do something similar for\
volunteering. This question comes up quite a bit. All right, so start writing your questions and we're going to\
open up for Q and A momentarily. And while you're writing those and thinking about those, I Want to share\
something exciting? So I have been playing a lot with Claude projects. It's surprisingly good for exactly what I\
tried to do with it. Okay. So what I did is I trained it on all of my course materials and then I asked itquestions from Lewis Lynn's question bank. And it did the exact thing that a candidate that would ace these\
interviews does. I will give a more thorough demo of this in my course and help people set this up. If you want to\
do it on your own, you totally can. Just go to Claude. You pay 20 bucks a month for Claude projects, give it as\
much of the publicly available materials that you like and resonate with you that are on the Internet as a project\
knowledge. And then you could start asking questions from the question bank. And that doesn't, you know, I. I\
won't make any money off of you doing that, but I think you could certainly do that on your own and see what comes\
back. And I think it can really be helpful for comparing what it comes up with versus what you come up with on\
your own. Chat GPT. I just saw a question. Um, I don't. I tried the same thing there and it. Honestly, I'm not\
trying to badmouth Chat GPT. It just wasn't as good. It was nowhere close to as good. It didn't take the pauses.\
It didn't check in with me the same way. So it kind of didn't really, like, internalize my materials as well.\
Okay, a few plugs here while you're writing your Q and A's, and then we'll stop sharing and open it up. So the\
first thing is if you want to take my course, the next cohort starts January 7th. It is two weeks long. Four live\
sessions. Two of them are really hands on, required quote unquote, and then two of them are optional where we'll\
work through more questions. So the more practice you want, uh, the more time you could spend. If you do want all\
of the practice that you can get, it's gonna be four live sessions. Uh, then there's also a take home assignment\
that you'll be group. You'll be teamed up with a couple other students in the same time zone and you'll work\
through an additional question together. So you, by the end of the the bootcamp, you would go through three\
product sense interviews and three product sense questions. And then you'll go through three analytical thinking\
questions. The live sessions are really more like case style discussions, which were really my favorite classes\
when I was in college and even in my professional career. When I went to certain like events and talks. If any of\
you know Gibson Biddle, we work together at Life360. Gibb is known for doing these like super engaging case style\
discussions. I try to kind of emulate the same vibe by working through real questions in my course. So if you like\
that kind of thing, I recommend taking a look. You will get 10% off with Light PS as a promo code and this is the\
QR code if you want to scan it. If you liked this lesson and want to do something similar for the other, you know,\
like the sister interview of the Product Sense interview, which is the analytical thinking one, I am doing a\
lightning lesson on that exactly one week from today. At the same time. You can go and find that in Maven's\
lightning lessons and we'll just spend our time on the completely different content on analytical thinking, but\
the same exact structure. And then one of the things I would absolutely love if you do not want to take my course\
or do anything else with me, I would really love feedback. And I think if you can scan this QR code, I will also\
send a link to the NPS survey after the fact in the email. With everything else, I would really appreciate some\
feedback on what worked and what could be better. All righty, I'm going to now stop sharing my screen and I'm\
going to open the chat.\
Okay, so I'm going to go as far up as I see the first question dropped. All right, so question one. Are there any\
key mistakes to avoid while choosing target audience and what is the depth level of problems for a segment that is\
expected evaluated? Okay, so the first question mistakes to avoid with choosing target audience, making it not\
specific enough where you can end up with a segment Persona. That's a big mistake. The second mistake I would say\
is using overly superficial heuristics such as only demographics. Like if you're. If your segments are like purely\
based on age group, for example, like young people, like kind of like young adults or like midlife adults and then\
like elderly people. And that's the only segmentation you come up with. It's too, it's too superficial. You do\
need to be a little bit more thoughtful by combining some of these other things we talked through and then the\
level of problems there's really not like. I mean the only mistakes are the ones I think I already touched on,\
which are make sure that they are people problems, not needs. So like someone struggles with something or it's\
really hard to do something or it really hurts when something happens like Those kind of things are problems. And\
ideally, like I said, cover a few different points in the user journey to make sure that you're not giving\
multiple flavors of the same problem. Okay, next question. How do you balance depth and brevity in answers? Found\
that interviewers preference vary between go deep and stay high level, which can be hard to sense. Which approach\
suits the interviewer best?\
Reading between the lines, it's kind of like, should I be sure you're on the side of being succinct or verbose?\
And I think that I would always start succinct, obviously make sure you're sharing like complete thoughts and\
complete sentences. If the interviewer does not get what they need from your synced starting point, give, let them\
nudge and let them ask. It's better to err on that side versus eating up way too much time upfront and realizing\
that the entire neighborhood you're in from a conversation perspective is off. Like they want to put you over here\
and you're over here and you just took up like two minutes or three minutes talking. Um, so I'd probably start\
there. Um, yeah. Let's see. How much detail do you need to provide when explaining why you rank each parameter ashigh, medium or low? Great question. So I've seen a bunch of candidates do this in different ways and some work\
really well. Some, some don't. Sometimes candidates do such a good job explaining why their top choice was their\
top choice. So like why they gave maybe something a high and a high or a high and a medium. Um, and I can. And\
they just kind of like can quickly touch on the other ones not scoring as well in those dimensions and we can move\
on. So that's one way to do it is just like spend the time explaining the rationale for the adoption that you do\
pick and just kind of skip over or just gloss over the other ones. I've seen some other candidates too. Super\
succinct, super quick in their thought process. Walk me through almost like their matrix. They literally like, I\
can almost like picture the matrix on their paper where they're like this one got a like low, medium, medium,\
high, high, high. For these reasons. Based on that, I'm going to go with this one. So you could do either of\
those. I think it really does boil down to your own confidence and your ability to manage the time. So if you\
think you can be succinct while covering all of those, great. And if not, I would try to only cover the main one.\
And um, if the interviewer's curious like sometimes I did, I do nudge and I'm like, all right, interesting. Like,\
I think this, you're choosing this segment, but the second segment seems like it might be bigger. Um, am I missing\
something or could you walk me through, you know, your rationale? So I might ask a nudge and that clears it up.\
Risks and trade offs. Um, trade offs are an analytical thinking and review question. Um, so you're. It's going to\
be extremely, extremely rare. I don't think anyone I've, I've helped over the last year or two has told me that\
they got a trade off question in a product sense. Inter you we certainly will go into trade offs and analytical\
thinking and then risks are going to be primarily around the initial rollout. So kind of like which markets would\
you start with? How are you going to make sure that the results are not going to be really terrible for the\
initial audience? Like, those kind of things. Are there any compliance or legal or copyright risks that you would\
need to mitigate those kind of things? You don't necessarily have to go into the detail of how you would mitigate\
those things in the interview, but you can talk about how those are risks that come to mind for you. And if you\
had time, you'd probably think of more and you'd want to make sure you address them in these kinds of ways. How do\
you signal your seniority level in product sense interviews? I get this question a lot, actually. People saying,\
hey, I want to get a level 7 or level 6. How do I make sure that I perform well enough on these interviews to not\
get, you know, slotted into a level 5? So the short answer is this is a moving target that is not there. There's a\
lot of discretion that companies place on these decisions. If you've ever sat in a company. I am not speaking\
about Facebook. I was not in the interview committees at Facebook, like, chewing on how to level people. So I\
literally cannot speak to that at all. But if you've ever been in any companies where they are interviewing\
candidates and trying to figure out the right level to bring them in at, you'll know there's a discussion and\
there's a bunch of data points and the recruiter is going to present a perspective. And one of the main pieces of\
evidence that you'll have going for you is your performance in these interviews. And then another one will be like\
your resume. Those are probably like two big ones. I would say the stronger you perform in the interviews, the\
higher the level will go, but to a ceiling. Like, if the company just is not hiring level 7PMs. Right now you\
could get a 5 out of 5 on every dimension of the, of every single interview you go through. And the ceiling for\
what you can get would be a six. Okay, so it's not like there's an infinite ceiling here. And I will say that for\
the very, very senior roles, you know, I'm thinking of like level 7 might be there, but I know for sure, like\
directors, VPs, those kind of roles, there are like additional panels of interviews that you'll go through. These\
are the ones that I prepare for in my course. Product Sense and analytic analytical thinking are kind of like the\
least common denominator for what everyone has to go through. Anywhere from like a rotational PM who's going to\
maybe get their first PM role in their whole life, all the way to someone who's maybe got 20, 30 years of, you\
know, VP level experience. Everyone has to pass Product sense analytical thinking and there's just like more for\
the more senior ones. Slides will be sent over email. Do we need to think through differently for existing\
products? Existing products will have just a little bit more of a narrow solution space. So the user journey for\
existing products is probably going to be a little bit more well defined too. If I ask you to walk me through your\
user journey for DoorDash, you're going to have like a lot more rigidity and like the user journey associated with\
something like DoorDash. And then the solution space for you for building something to improve DoorDash is also\
going to be a lot more constrained to that product. I would say in open ended questions you can kind of like talk\
a little bit more holistically about the journey. And then you also have a less constrained solution space. So\
those feel like the key differences.\
The materials for the video that I shared, I think the person asked that question just dropped. But that's going\
to be something I talk about in my course. But like I said, you can go and bootstrap your own Claude project using\
publicly available materials. Okay. Will there be more cohorts besides January and February? Yes, those are just\
the only two I have open right now. Is this type of interview limited for a specific PM level? I think we justtalked about that. Are you sure we should not mention metrics?\
Interesting. Yeah, whoever. Dan, if you want to email me, I'm happy to hear more about the kind of intel you have\
on how Instacart does this. But yeah, things like talking about top level metrics like GMV or MAUS are not things\
that would come up in a product sense interview. At least the ones, all the ones I've been working on. Okay.\
If you can't finish everything on time, if you finish solutions. But I have time to discuss metrics. Metrics are\
out of the scope for this, so let's definitely not. That is not a problem. That is a good thing. But like risks\
and go to market, those are bonuses. I think there's a world in which the interviewer gets all the signal they\
need without talking about like risks of go to market or even the V1. Maybe the solution you described is just\
like so cool and compelling and the creative space you demonstrated with your brainstorming was so strong that\
they might not even need to hear about the V1 or the MVP and they'll still pass you in the interview. But if you\
can't get to the solution part of the interview, you're not going to pass the interview. So you do need to get to\
it. You need to get through every section of the interview to pass. Typical expectation for time to finish. Yeah,\
I covered this in the beginning. Um, you have about 35 minutes. So five minutes. Intro, small talk in the\
beginning, five minutes at the end where they want to let you ask them questions. The thing to train for is\
roughly 35 minutes. Um, time management techniques. I covered those earlier in the slides. Um, so if, when you get\
the recording, you could look back. But I would say it's mostly just about understanding the amount of time that\
you want to allocate to every section and then being really succinct with your responses and making sure you take\
the time to think before you talk. As long as you think before you talk for one to two minutes. Be succinct when\
you speak up, answer any questions they might have for you or hint, follow any hints or nudges and kind of like\
correct the course. You should be able to get through everything in 35 minutes.\
For the one to two minute pause, do you call it out that you want to use that time to think? Yeah, I would just\
say like I'm going to now take a minute or two to gather my thoughts about how I would do, how I want to segment\
and then how I want to. I want to take a couple of minutes and think about problems for this Persona that we just\
defined. Now I want to take a couple minutes think about solutions for this problem we just prioritized. You can\
totally say that. And any insights on how smaller companies hire interview pms? Yeah, I would say, you know, like\
a lot of my Experiences in the series A, Series B, Series C stage, you are not likely to run into these kind of\
structured interviews at those earlier stage startups. This is mostly like I went through these interviews when I\
joined Attentive, which was a Series E company at the time. So at that scale where you have like over a thousand\
people at the company, I would definitely imagine some kind of real structure to start to emerge when they have,\
you know, like 30PMs or something like that. But if you're the first PM, second PM, first 5pm at a smaller\
company, unlikely to happen. And that's going to be a lot more about fit culture, like a lot of these intangibles,\
product intuition, those kind of things. Since everyone's using the same basic approach, how do you stand out\
beyond creativity and solutions?\
It's such a good question because I think it underscores something I always tell people, which is don't\
underestimate how hard it is to just do the basics in these interviews. So just getting through every single thing\
we talked about and giving the signal at a satisfactory level, we'll pass you the interview. If a interviewer asks\
10 candidates over the next week the same question and they get 10 different responses that are the same and they\
are all good, the same good response, all 10 will pass. So that's kind of how companies like, you know, these\
bigger companies that use structured interviews work is these interviews are meant to weed out bias. So as long as\
people are consistent in the way they evaluate people, the same exact answer should not hurt someone in the 10th\
interview if it came up also in the first interview.\
All right, I got a couple more minutes. If people have any other questions here,\
last thing I'll say is if, if you want more of this exercise and you want to be able to kind of like ask these\
questions on an ongoing basis, I do make myself also available to everyone that takes my course and Give responses\
within 24 hours if not getting on a call to talk about it. So one more, one more reason to take the course. What\
are your thoughts about a whiteboarding challenge where one has to share their screen? I'm so happy you asked.\
This is something that a lot of. So definitely the folks that I coach going through the meta interview process are\
told they could use a whiteboard if they want. You don't have to. And out of everyone that I interviewed when I\
was there, no one did. And the ones that did, I think it caused probably more technical difficulties and it\
helped. Now, if you have to share your screen and go through A whiteboard challenge. That is not going to be the\
kind of interview we just talked about. It'll be a different kind of interview, like maybe like a working session\
or let's work through a problem together. In my experience, those happen more often in smaller companies thanthese kind of like bigger tech companies. Um, if you get rejected, can you reapply? Yes. I don't know what the\
timeframe is though. I've heard from some people that the recruiter told them six months and some people tell me\
the recruiter told them one year. So I think it depends maybe on the exact experience. You have other best ways to\
utilize the last five minutes? Um, yeah, I would, I would. The question is, you asked the interviewer at the end\
of these interviews, they're not going to really like change the score that you get on the interview. Like if you\
passed and you asked them like, you know, quote unquote basic questions, they're not going to like, be like, now\
you don't pass the interview. And similarly, if you bomb the interview and you ask incredible questions at the\
end, you're not going to, it's not going to change anything. So it's mostly just a function of you learning. And I\
like to tell people, yeah, like ask the questions that are really hard to Google, like if there's something that\
you're curious about that that PM is working on, or what it's like to be a PM at that company, just ask and. Or\
what's something you're really excited about right now that you're working on and what's the last like publicly\
announced thing that you shipped and like, where did the insight come from? You know, like, those kind of\
questions could be really cool. I know, okay, how to get, how to qualify. Unfortunately that's really hard. Like\
these days it's a black box and how people stick out. I do know there's, there's a reawakening, I think, of hiring\
within tech relative to maybe like a year or two ago. Um, recruiters are playing offense. There's a ton of people\
on the market. So I do think that you gotta set up your LinkedIn to like be like, look really appealing. Ideally,\
network and get referred. Warm. Warm introductions and warm referrals are probably the best bet you have for\
getting in the door at any company these days, regardless of whether they do product sense interviews. So I would\
say like network and just put yourself in a position to have someone vouch for you and make sure your resume at\
least gets seen internally. Those are probably the biggest piece of advice I have.\
}